Okay.
Ah, can I?
Ah, chotto matte.
I'm so excited.
Alright.
Right. So good evening, everyone.
Welcome to my session.
First of all, I have some questions for you guys.
Do you know this anime or these cartoons?
So?
Ah.
Yeah. So, anyone know this one? You know this one, right?
Anyone know this one? No. No. No, it's
Okay. So actually, it's quite old.
I just realized these things
you know, like a couple days ago when I asked some new generation students, and
they said, "I don't know this one. What is it?"
So actually these cartoons are named
In Thai it's น้องสาวผมไม่ได้น่ารักขนาดนั้นหรอก In Japanese it's Ore no Imōto ga
Konnani Kawaii
Wake ga Nai. So you maybe like
Why is it related to something that we're going to say today?
So today, I'm going to share this thing.
to any things because
I'm going to talk about how we create the
RAG AI or RagAI.
So what do you like, by the way?
Yup. Yup. So,
because I'm going to base the story from these cartoons. So, these cartoons,
the main characters,
the middle one, the girl, she is like
very good girl, good student,
and really high class, something like that. But actually, behind the scene,
in her secret life, she loves anime, playing eroge games, yep,
some 18 plus game, something like that. And I think
what I could help her
to achieve something better or
So today, I'm going to create the RAG AI
that will help Kirino
to search anime easier.
So, but before we go do that,
I would like to talk about
RAG AI first. What's it?
So...
Oh, first of all, I forgot to
introduce myself. But anyway,
My name is Jirachai Chansivanon.
My nickname is Job.
I'm currently working at MongoDB in Singapore.
So my role is Consulting Engineer, so
normally I'm going to work on how we can make
MongoDB faster, how we can install it,
how we are going to implement it, something like that.
So that's what my work is.
And previously I was working at Microsoft as Digital Specialist,
so you may get confused, what is it?
So actually it's normally about
being specialized in some Microsoft technology areas. Previously I was
working as a specialist for Azure,
about application things in Azure. How are we going to install it? How to build it? Something like that.
But yeah, just the past. So, now today I'm at MongoDB and
I found something really fantastic here as well.
So, let's move on.
So, let's start from
RAG
Anyone know about RAG before, or know what it stands for?
I guess most of you all also know about this one.
So, basically, RAG stands for Retrieval Augmentation Generation.
So, it's going to be one technique to build your applications and connect to LLM.
Large Language Model, like GPT, Gemini,
or DeepSeek or something else, and let them
find or search something for you, but
based on human language, like not
directly with something like that. You just,
for example, need to search for sweaters.
So if you say,
I'm cold right now, so I'm looking for something to wear to make
my body warmer, something like that.
You can type in something like this, and your AI can search for a sweater or clothes for you.
So that will work for you, but
how with
So normally, if your applications, right?
You have your database here.
So normally, you interact with your application by searching or browsing something like that.
And then your application just searches right away from the database and returns it to you.
That's what a normal application does, right?
But for RAG,
normally, it will retrieve
the data the same as the database
does. I mean, like a normal application does.
But maybe add something more in this step.
If we add augment and generations, what is it?
So augment means we're going to use the capability of LLM.
It could be your Gemini, or
yeah, whatsoever, et cetera, to
augment, to combine with the base knowledge.
Like, if you find some
part of the data, and you need
to add on more to make it more complete. So you can use LLMs to
augment it to make it more complete.
And then, generate it back into the human language.
So you may probably see something like this
with new applications nowadays. Today, you can use ChatGPT and try to search something.
And ChatGPT just goes to searching from Google or Bing, right?
It's Bing actually. So yeah, so
searching for you and generating an option for you.
needs and that's your in the human language.
to easier for easier way for you.
So that's what RAG is going to do, but
actually RAG does not just only support for normal database,
Where is my next slide?
Okay. So, actually, one thing that makes RAG
more special than the normal searching is it could search from the data that
that could be PDF, JSON file, images, or something else,
that you can convert back into the
numeric representations, like vectors.
So that's what we're going to do with
RAG today,
because normally, in those part, it can be
on application part, right?
But we're going to be talking about how
how are we going to convert our data and store it in something else
and make your LLM process easier, because
LLM doesn't just go and grab some data and come back.
But it needs to search for something that is similar to something that you search, right?
So for example you need to be looking for some sweaters
or something to make you feel warmer, right?
So, you cannot search for
warm clothes or something like that from the database, but you need to search for something and then
try to find something similar
as to your input.
So we're going to be talking about
how do we make this process happen
all realistic things.
because LLM will not search like state-of-word but search in some way.
So let me switch to this computer instead. I will draw something for you.
Well, I need to move this one.
You may be thinking about why I don't use just only
one computer. So actually, during the build of
this demo, I forgot to switch the computer. I mean, I picked the wrong one.
Yeah, so that's why it ended up like this.
So actually the demo should be on this computer, but
in that moment, I picked the wrong one.
Well, okay. Let me
Share my screen. Well,
that's my debug.
Okay. So let's start from here.
Let me keep what I have to say to see where my applications are for drawing.
for drawing
Give me a second.
All right, it's here.
Let me re-share my screen.
All right.
Okay. Let me recap what I have just
explained previously. So, normally, right, you have an application, and your application needs to
search something from the database, right? Normally, if we need to search, it will go to the search engine instead, right?
and just search something that uses the keyword, right?
But we will not do this one. But we can
try to search something as a sentence,
right?
And we're going to use LLMs
to convert this one into the
numeric representations.
Actually, it should be like ones and zeros.
And then, try to search based on
these numbers. So why do we need to
convert our sentence or search to numbers? Because numbers could represent something that
is wider or more dynamic. So, because
after we convert this one into numbers, we will search
the data based on a number as well.
That means the data that we're going to store in the database
is also stored as a number as well.
So when we are going to store this kind of data, you need to look for some database that we call
vector database.
And then we can use our search engine to search it on the vectors.
This is what we are going to do, and today we will not focus on
this part or other part to part
about generation, but we will focus on this part,
how we're going to import the data, and how we are going to search our data.
And today, our components,
of course, this database is MongoDB,
because MongoDB is designed to store the
JSON format data, right? And it's also
optimized for vectors database as well.
So that means you can store your data like
the original data along with the vector data as well.
And you can use
our search engine. We call it Atlas
vector search
to search our data.
So actually, normally, this process is quite complicated, but
MongoDB makes this thing easier, but I'm not sure it's really as easy as
I'm not sure you're going to think the same as me, but this process is
much easier than previously as well.
So, let's see.
What do we need to do?
I will
Okay.
Okay. So, I will refer to my demonstrations.
In this system, I'm going to build the application that helps users to search
anime easier based on human language, right?
So, that means we need to have the database of anime first. So, the first thing I need to do is
Um,
to load the database.
Load the data somewhere else to MongoDB.
So,
this part I chose to get this one from my anime
list web
to get the list of animes. And then, I do one thing.
I convert it
to numbers.
So, to convert this one to numbers, how to do this?
I use the LLMs.
But, this LLM is an embedding model.
Basically, an embedding model is another language model, but it
like language model, but it
specializes in converting your
text into numbers. And let me send it
like different dimension. It's on its info.
So, that means if you have, like,
the back or like
synopsis of that anime, it will convert
the whole story into the numeric representations.
So, in this part,
I'm using a REST API to get the whole story of my anime
and ask my LLMs to convert this one into the numbers, and then just
insert the numbers along with the full document into MongoDB. This is the first step.
So that means after I insert, I will get something like this.
This is it.
Is here? Oh, no. This one.
So after I insert my data,
as a number numeric representations along with my full data.
So of course, here is my original data, right?
But here, I have the semantic embeddings.
This is what I convert by using LLMs
to convert
the whole text of this one of semantics.
semantics and then convert into the number like this one.
So that means, this data is ready to
search by using vector search. So,
you can think about like
So, how are we going to use vector search?
Do I need to create a new
vector search engine, or do I need to install something else?
Luckily, in MongoDB, we already embedded the search
vector search engine and text search engine for you. But as of now,
that engine is only available on cloud versions, but
I'm hoping this year they will enable you to install it on your
local machines.
So today,
I installed the cloud version of MongoDB on my computer by using development tools. So,
that means I don't need to connect to the internet at all.
So,
I just create my search index here.
Before my session, I created a search index
to tell my MongoDB vector search to know
which field is the vectors
types. So I just create my search index in MongoDB directly, and then
just set the type into vectors, and then set the path.
So path, it means which field that we are going to use as a vector search. So from here, I just
set
I need to use the Semantic
I will, you know, I need to copy the whole of the text.
Yep, yeah.
So to do so, in MongoDB Atlas, after you create MongoDB Atlas, and it's free,
you just create your search index.
and set the vector search like this.
just choose the path to be the path that you store the vectors at.
And then, you just set your
Dimensions, number of dimensions. So how can we find this one?
It's based on your LLMs
or LLM, whichever one that you use.
So for me, I use
I forgot which one I used for this section.
I used the
Oh, Nomic Embed
embed text. So this,
the number of dimensions is based, it depends on your
models that you choose. So that means
my Nomic
models, they have
dimensions. So here, I just put
this one to be 768 dimensions.
To find this one, you can check on your model documentation, they would
tell you how many dimensions it will return back to you.
And next, it's similarities.
So, similarity basically is going to be like
the function in mathematics
will help us to search or match something that is similar together.
So here we have three choices of similarity. We have
Euclidean, cosine, and dot products. So, you may like
Okay. Now I have to extend the mathematics class. Actually, yeah, if you need to
deep understanding of it. But for me today, I'm going to use cosine.
Because cosine is good for finding something that
is similar or close together
in terms of distance. So, I will use the cosine.
So, to understand the other function, you can check on the MongoDB documentation as well.
So, I just set this one as cosine.
And then,
change the index name to be something different,
like this. And now it's
So now, your database
will be available for you to set as a vector search.
and text search.
So, to search this one,
we just type your sentence. But your sentence, as of now, is still a string, right?
as human text. So that means we need to convert this one
into human text, okay? And as well
So, if you go to my GitHub, I will
Oops.
It's gone.
My GitHub is gone.
Let me check. What happened?
Hello.
Hey.
Anyone here? Riffy?
Is that back?
So, yeah. So that
Screen is up. Okay, now it's back.
Just like, yeah.
I don't need this doc, actually.
Yep.
So, actually, you can check my source code from here and you can go along with me.
But
Yeah, as of now, my
my source code that I pushed to my GitHub is not finished yet. I will put it up later.
Yeah, I just finished this one when I came here on stage. So, yep.
So, when I go to my repository, you're gonna notice that it's not
completed.
But the whole thing is inside here
in the anime pullers.
So, of course, I created this folder to ingest my data into MongoDB.
But
Yep. As of now, I use this one for demonstration, as well.
So,
after I convert my data and insert and create the index for vector search, right?
So I just need to create the search system.
So in my file, you will notice that I have search.ts here.
So
I hope this file will explain
how MongoDB search
to you.
I mean like
easier to understand. So here, in this process, what I have to do,
I just receive
retrieve the input from the users.
And then I just
convert this one to be the embedded
representation as numeric representations. And then it just
search straightforwardly into MongoDB like this.
So here, this is my input.
And then it will search for
from this collection, anime list.
And it will try to find like 500 candidates that
could have something similar to what I am searching for.
and return up to 100
search results back to me.
And it will return the
results of searching. I will show you.
Anyone here would like to search some
cartoon? You have some
cartoom that you'd like to search?
Dragon Ball. Dragon Ball, right? Okay. Let me try to search.
So, instead of searching Dragon Ball,
directly, I use search based on its semantics.
Like, let me try.
Give me a moment.
So, I just
I just need to say it like this. Okay.
So I just put what,
I need to search for. I will search for like story about
How do you, how do we call Goku?
I mean like, the type of the super human, how do we say,
A Super Saiyan. Okay. The story about Super Saiyan.
How do you spell Saiyan?
S E Y, right? S A
I
S A I. Oh.
A N Y A, right?
Y A N. Y A N.
Saiyans. To collect
seven
balls.
Okay.
Huh.
Dragon Ball's awesome.
And this one.
Okay.
I will search with a small like this. Okay, let's try to see.
Gonna think, why?
Because I removed
this one.
Yeah, I call this one. Yep, I was there.
Okay, that is return.
Like Dragon Ball.
Like this.
Okay.
I didn't include the Dragon in my search at all.
But I was just talking about something like
Super Saiyan, right? Or I would like to try something different, like
study about
Do you have some idea about
One Piece, right?
Oh, I think Luffy is maybe quite too straightforward, so I'm gonna try like
Pirate.
I will accidentally
misspell as well. Pirate to
find the precious
I never searched about this one before.
But let's see what I got from here.
I know about
One Piece at all. Oh, it's here.
Yeah, it may be not a top
Top results, but it's also included here as well.
So this is what I can do from here.
Before I end my session, I want to show you how to
ingest my data and convert into vector representations.
So you can go back, you can open my start producer actually.
So because I just
do this demonstration this afternoon, so that means I need to
ingest like a thousand of
anime into my computer directly.
So instead of just using a for loop, I use Kafka instead.
So from here, I'm just pulling the data
from my anime list, right?
So if you go to this file, get anime.
I just get all anime and keep
looping until keep going to the next page and next page.
And then
I will send to the next step
to embed
my data.
So after I got
a bunch of data already, I just do the same thing as I have done with searching.
So I just convert it back to be like
I just convert it into the vector search.
into vector representations.
I just insert it directly into my database.
And so that, it's done.
So, in this process, you may not be able to see the search UI at all
because this one it will be on the back end part.
So, it's going to be about how we are going to
convert my data, how we're going to send it.
So,
Yep, that's about the process.
But from here you may see the other files as well because we see essentially
inserted the wrong data, and I also included the adults anime here as well. So,
I need to include it later on.
Yeah, so it's quite complex here.
I mean, the way I represent
represent the source code here.
But
I hope you can understand and get some idea about
how the vector search works here.
Well, I will open the floor for you to ask me about
the process or need me to clarify something here.
Anyone that would like to ask me about this one?
Yes
Okay, let me ขอบคุณค่ะ Yes ครับ เอ่อ แบบว่า for
when you embed the data of
to store in the database, does it
Does it need to be the same model that you use to search, or
if we decide to change the model, do we have to
Redo the database?
Awesome. That's a very good question.
I also have the same question as you did before. So, yes, of course,
you need to use the same model to search.
The same model as you store your data
to search as well. And if you would like to change the model, yes, that's right. You need to
re-embed once again.
Like what I have done here. So you will see that I have one file
named re-embed it.
So, yes, because I changed my mind
to change my data structure that I just embedded.
So that means I need to start over again to ingest my data.
That's right.
Okay.
Thank you so much for your question, by the way.
Any questions?
Yes.
Yeah, so I think many of us might not
know much about text embedding or something like that.
If there any
advice on how to choose it, which
which embedding model is
suitable for what kind of search?
Okay. Yeah. Thank you so much. So,
That's also a good question, as well. So, actually,
the model, you need to do some benchmarking as well, testing with your dataset, or maybe you need to
read through the documentation because it depends on
what kind of dataset you have.
What are your data languages?
So you need to check on that. For me, I used to use Nomix because it's good at
both Thai and English as well.
And as I checked on benchmarking, it
has a good result, and in terms of
performance to execute on my computer, it doesn't use much time to convert it.
Yeah.
That's right.
Thank you so much for your question.
Because we still have time, right?
I will try to start over five minutes, right? Oh,
Okay.
I will try. So actually, I could try to create the whole new projects. And of course,
this demo could fail, so let's try.
So,
I just would like to show you some examples. If
you go back to your home today,
what can you do? First of all, just go to MongoDB
MongoDB Atlas.
Oops. Yep. My webpage is not finished yet.
So, first of all, just go to your MongoDB Atlas.
Give me a second.
Why do we need to create a MongoDB first? Because we need to have the
the database to store the data, right?
So just open your Atlas.
MongoDB Atlas and create your first cluster. Actually, MongoDB
we have always free and forever free tiers without
using your credit card at all. Just create it straightforwardly.
And then,
you just
you got your cluster like this.
And then,
and then we need to insert our data.
As of now, we already got our cluster. Next step,
we just need the connection string.
So, from here you can choose any. So I will choose maybe Shell.
So you can try to connect to your database as well.
And I need to change my usernames.
So just need to check that
my connection is valid.
So just connect to your database.
and it's in, like…
It's not work. Oh, it worked. Awesome. So, that means,
Right now, we already got our,
first cluster.
Next step, you need to ingest your data.
So, to ingest your data, you need to get ingest
as a vector search, right? So, I will try to
insert some random data.
I will try to create a new file here.
Let me create
demo.ts, like this.
And then
I will try to insert the story of
myself and my friends.
So, I will talk and insert my names and about myself
into the data.
So, I will start from me.
names, like, Job.
And I will put my description here.
So,
or is…
But that, this is not the name.
So, I will use nickname instead.
So, description will be the man
who
working at
MongoDB,
lonely in Singapore.
Yeah.
I need to attack myself first. So sad, no?
And my friends usually
And my friend is him, actually.
visit me.
At
2:00 a.m. randomly.
Yep, I put it like this.
And then I will try to add another data.
I will pick my friends, maybe some
You, I will write about it.
about you.
So,
So this is my friend's name.
and descriptions
What should I describe about you?
Hmm.
Okay. Maybe like
A man
who was
studying abroad.
studying abroad
who was, who was a student
in Japan.
Something like that.
So, actually, it's quite small data, actually. So,
But I will try to show you how vector search works here.
So, after you already got your data,
you need to convert it, right? You just build your first,
your first converters.
So, from here, on my computer, I already installed Ollama,
the application that
allows you to run your LM locally.
So, I already
installed the package to connect to Ollama directly, like this.
This is my function to convert my data.
So, I will create other functions.
Oh.
มีที่วางไมค์ไหม?
Okay. I will create one function here,
like main, right?
And then, I
I will convert my data. So,
To convert the data is very simple. You just loop it.
And then, just send it directly.
vector.
And I will call this one.
The co-pilot generated for me. So, we need to.
JSON stringified first.
And send it just only like the descriptions, I guess.
And then, you just put.
The data structure here.
Give me a moment.
Next step, you just insert your data.
So, you need to connect to MongoDB first.
So, I will use my function that I already created.
Connect DB.
And it needs to be awaited.
And then.
I will insert it.
Collection. Thank you, co-pilot.
And I just insert one.
Like this.
And of course, we need to include the full document or original document as well.
So, we can use the object spread to.
Include all original data.
And then include the embedding here.
Right?
And done. This is the first part of inserting the data.
So, let's see what it can look like.
I need to run the demo file.
Oh.
Main functions.
Mhm.
Oh, yeah, that's right. Thank you so much.
Yep, it should be on this name. Yeah, nickname. All right.
And yes.
And hopefully it
Done.
Okay. I think it's done because I didn't pin out anything. Oh,
And you can see my password live away from here.
Awesome.
Yep.
It's fine.
So, this one, I just insert into my
my local Atlas actually. So,
For you, you just use the normal Atlas,
like the descriptions. This one just insert to my
local Atlas here.
And when you see that, we've got a new
We should have a new database here, no?
Why?
It's not up here.
this fake database. Oh, it's here.
Okay. I got a new collection here. Now, you'll see that
my data, my descriptions
already convert to vectors, right?
Next step, we need to search. So to search,
we just view this is
So I will create another function here for search.
I will refer to my previous code source code here.
Async functions search
And I will push
q?: string
Here
And of course, we need to retrieve the input.
Form Q or like form parameters like this.
Completing. Thank you, Copilot. You helped me a lot. So,
Yep. And then, we just type
send our input into generate embedding.
Like this.
And then,
What next? Just connect your MongoDB.
And
I think I can copy and paste.
Okay. So, we just
We just use
the aggregation function to people collection.
as a return result.
And don't forget to change your path as well.
So now, for our path, we use
embedding, right?
Yep. We use embedding.
This one.
And one thing that we forgot,
We need to create an index for vectors as well.
We need to come back here.
And click create search index.
And we just put our path for embeddings,
and our model size
is
768.
And we're going to use the cosine similarity functions.
Yep.
Okay. Now, it's ready.
Now, everything looks
already good.
I hide
I will
I will hide everything as well. I don't need to show it.
and set it to be an array.
And console log
the results
Okay, I will show only the nickname.
and I will remove the descriptions
Alright. Yes.
the
Moment of Truths
Why error here? Let's see.
What am I missing here?
I am missing
parentheses here.
and change this one to be search.
Okay.
And let's try to run this one.
So I will type Japanese students.
I think that's too straightforward. Maybe like
Study abroad, studying abroad.
Let's see the result. Yep. We got some first, and followed by job.
Yay! Okay. Yay!
Time is running out. Sorry. Thank you so much. That's all.
It's Riffy's idea, not mine.
Okay. Say bye to Singapore. Bye bye. Thank you.
Do you want to say any last words? No. I'm just saying
try to use this.
Yep. You can come back to check on my repository and try to deploy this one
with your own MongoDB cluster.
I mean, MongoDB Atlas cluster. And if you would like to deploy your own MongoDB Atlas
on your own machine, you just install this thing.
You need to install
something we call Atlas CLI.
Once you install the Atlas CLI, you can deploy
exactly the same Atlas MongoDB Atlas
cloud version on your computers.
features using Atlas followed by deployment
and setup.
If I remember correctly, setup type
Atlas local like this one. I'm not sure.
You need to install two things: Atlas CLI and Docker. And after that, it will deploy
it will deploy
something that's similar to MongoDB Atlas cloud versions.
I forgot
the parameters.
So that means you can try to run your own MongoDB Atlas on your computer directly.
And it will create a new
MongoDB containers,
Docker container with
containing the MongoDB
DB Atlas inside, and you can follow the steps.
And you will get your own MongoDB Atlas on your computers, and enjoy.
And happy hacking. Thank you so much.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Okay.